Reviewer report -- #MS 31620, entitled ``Dynamics of Two Freely Rotating Dipoles''



In this manuscript, the authors derive the equations of motion for two spherical dipoles moving on a plane. Their main (unexpected) result is that both small and large amplitude motions are exclusively quasi-periodic. Indeed, one of the modes obtained is isomorphic to the simple pendulum (moving in the regime of continual spinning at high energy).



After checking that their Lagrangian in Eq.(10) and their Hamiltonian in Eq.(15) are both correct, I've spent a lot of time checking the normal modes obtained in Sec.IV.A.2 and building a routine to compute Period X energy curves, the only way to rigorously check the numerical results presented in their Fig.3, at page 16.



Since this kind of work is very interesting for those teachers (like me) who are engaged with analysis of oscillations in classical mechanics classes, I strongly recommend acceptance for publication in AJP, as long as some changes/corrections are implemented in the final version. See list below.



i) Page 2, end of Abstract: the characterization of the pendular regime of motion as ``simple pendulum complete with continual spinning at high energy'' could be rewritten in a more clear and specific form. Maybe something like ``simple pendulum in the non-oscillatory, high energy regime of motion in which it does not reverse its angular velocity.''



ii) Page 2, beginning of Introduction:  It seems to me that this section would be better initiated with the second paragraph. In this case, the first paragraph could be moved to the beginning of the paragraph ``We take a union of the Pollack and Edwards systems by allowing both spheres...''



iii) Page 3, 6th line (from the top):  The phrase ``While Edwards' system exhibited chaos, this new system does not, even

at large amplitudes'', though correct, should be complemented with a brief explanation (maybe a footnote) on why this system does not present chaotic behavior.

192.168.0.8

iv) Page 9, Eq.(18): [important for students and other non-specialists] The authors should clarify in which sense Eq.(18) is an approximation.  Hint: it is a Taylor series truncation, but it could be better explained mathematically, maybe using a footnote or a reference.



v) Page 14, Eq.(36):  Though I know that AJP assistants are very rigorous in their revisions/edditing, in some parts the text accompanying equations is problematic. For instance, Eq.(36) should end with a comma, and the phrase below it is not a new paragraph, but its continuation.



vi) Page 15, Sec.IV.B.2:  [important to enrich the analysis of the numerical result presented in Fig.3] The result in Fig.3 appears to have an analogy with that presented for a simple pendulum in Fig.2 of  ``Analytical study of the critical behavior of the nonlinear pendulum,'' Am. J. Phys. Vol. 78(11), 1146 (2010).  There, the curve is interpreted as a critical phenomenon with a phase transition. It would be nice if the authors could explore this analogy.
